Student life, and you were talking about Hector
and Bill. Yeah, Bill Mahomes. What were the major
extracurricular student organizations? MSC.
With whatever it had to do, and that was pretty much
it. Of course, you had intramurals. We were
certainly all involved. Intramurals were a very
important part of campus life. But it was...
Regular school traditions, sporting
activities, things of this nature in NIC. That was
really it. You weren't not in the Singa Dads. No.
All right, well, describe the routine of being a
yell leader and particularly being a head yell
leader. Oh, it was
quite involved back in those days. I don't know, it
was, as head yell leader you were, horse out front
in charge of the Aggie spirit and things of this
nature. But you had a hand in pretty much
everything. Uh, Yelliers were in charge of
building the bonfire. And as head Yellier you had
to coordinate all that stuff. Now then that's left
up to committees of folks to do that. Um, Muster,
you were involved in Muster. You called the name of
of the missing, and you were involved in that
program. Started a school, all-university
night. You were responsible for getting that all
organized. You
were pretty much critically involved in
everything that took place on campus as Yellier,
particularly head Yellier. You were involved
with Student Senate, you were involved with MSC,
you were involved with all those activities on the
campus. And I would say that at that point in time,
the three positions were core commander, student
body president, head yell leader, and probably
MSC president, four positions. And you four were
responsible for pretty much everything that
happened on campus in some form or fashion. Can you
think of any specific incident, problem, event,
et cetera, plus or minus, that you had to cope with
as head yell leader? You mentioned one, the belt.
The belt, that was the only, that was really the
only thing that really stands out in my mind. I
would say that being head yell leader was the most
plushable thing that you could just about do at A&M
in my opinion. It is the most high profile position
there is. Everybody, I can tell you all my head yell
leaders. I cannot begin to tell you. who the
student body presidents were. I think I might can
tell you who their core commanders were, but I have
to think about that. But I can darn sure tell you who
the head yell leader was. And he's known by
everybody. Now, what did a head yell leader wear at
a football game? They wore the whites, just like
they do now. The same thing that Lupo gave us. Oh, I
didn't know that. Oh, yeah. Lupo contributed to
the yellier uniform, and he went over to the When
you got lucky, you'd go over there and you'd find
you some of those, they were basically the same
uniforms that were used by the dairy employees,
but they just put some patches and stuff on them,
you know. And you'd go over there and they'd outfit
you with a couple outfits and give them to you. They
were yours. And
they gave you the uniforms and the shoes and the
whole bit, and that was it. Do you remember any
particular games where the weather was extreme.
Oh, yeah. I remember Florida State my junior year,
just the torrential downpour, just
unbelievable,
rain fog. Cotton Bowl my junior year, it was so
cotton and cold. And you're freezing to death. But
nothing my senior year, there was anything
weather standpoint or anything else that stands
out. It was pretty much a calm deal. But the thing
about the earlier I tell folks is after I got chosen
as head dealer, I must have gotten cuter all of a
sudden because my social life just took off. Girls
I couldn't even begin to get to talk to were now
calling me. It was a wonderful social experience
at that point in time and a lot of fun. Describe
midnight yell practice to someone who had never
known about it. Well, midnight yell practice is a
little different than it is now in that you did
gather up in the quad, duck an area, and you took off
and you followed the man all through campus. And we
would go off the end of the quad and we'd go through,
now it's the library. The library's there, so you
can't do that. We'd go down there by the chemistry
building, turn by the engineering buildings.
We'd come around, pick up by Lysabesa, and come on
over by the fish pond, the other dorms in Henderson
Hall, and back on around by Simpson Drill Field,
MSC, on in to the other. And we picked up students
along the way. And by the time we got there, we had
everybody swaying and arms locked and walking
across the campus. It was a real affair. Then we got
there, and everybody then got into sleep. Now
then, A few follow the band over and everybody's in
the study room ahead of time. It's not the same in
that regard. Yale practices are a lot larger now
than they were then because of the number of people
involved. But they were fun experiences. They
really truly were. Midnight Yale practice, you'd
always have a date and usually had something you
were going to beforehand, a dance or a party or
something, and midnight Yale and all that went on
there and then the next day of the game it was always
a great place
these are questions for earlier uh heroes uh going
to and from college station you didn't have a car
yeah uh you how did you get back and forth and how
often Well, you went back and forth, you'd catch
rides with folks from the same part of the country
that you were from who might have a car, or you
hitchhiked. And my record was 13 different rides
from the campus of A&M to the front door of my
parents' farm.
Which I don't want to spend most of the day on those
13 rides to get there. But most of the times you'd
ride with some, you got to know everybody from your
part of the country. And one of the stories I'm told
here recently is there was one guy in Atlanta named
Danny Barr that I would ride with, and a couple kids
from Pittsburgh that I'd ride with, too. And I
remember Danny just didn't ride with him too much
because he drove like a mangy gang. I mean, he would
just scare the hell out of me. What's so funny about
all that stuff is that Danny Barr just retired from
the Air Force. For the last, I think, about 10 years
of his career, he was a pilot of Air Force One. And I
thought, my God, as a president, how bad a driver he
used to be. But now he's flying the president
around in response for his safety. But I just catch
rides with guys going back home. And it was not a
problem. And we'd go quite often. When there
wasn't something happening on campus,
particularly when you're a freshman or
sophomore, you want to kind of get out of harm's
way. And that was what you did to do that. I told, I
gave a speech to some of the kids a few years ago.
They wanted to end the semester type of thing. I
wanted to kind of pump them up to come back. I told
them, I said, I think that if I were to ever have an
accident and be in a coma, and I could be in a coma for
certain months only, and if I would wake up on a
Sunday afternoon, I would know it would be a Sunday
afternoon. because I had this sinking feeling in
the pit of my stomach that you got on Sunday after
you had to go back to the dorm, all on land, because
that's exactly right. That's the same feeling you
got. What were the secrets of Aggie hitchhiking?
You had your little bag that said Texas Aggies on
it, this little tote bag, and the uniform helped.
And I never will forget, I was dropped off in
Jewett, Texas, And 79 was one of the main routes
back to northeast Texas. And I was back on the north
side of Jewett, and I had my bag down, my uniform in.
Here comes this car with this convertible, two
young ladies in it. And they were blowing down the
highway, and I pull on the brakes and think, it's
some distance from me. And I pick my bag, and I run
down there. And I thought, oh, man, my luck has
turned. It's a convertible with two young ladies
in it, you know, the whole bit. And Just about the
time I get there, they take off. And there were a
couple girls from University of Texas. They made
some comment about Aggies and drove off into the
sunset. I remember picking up a rock and wanting to
chuck it at them, but I didn't. Let's see. You
didn't have a car for a while. No, I did not. Were
there any rules about borrowing cars? Sure. The
rule was, you put the gas in, you bring it back, and
if there's any dents in it, you're responsible for
it. We had two freshmen that had cars when we were
freshmen, and we all utilized those cars.
By the time, you know, you got to be juniors and
seniors, a lot of the guys had vehicles at that
point in time, and you always had an opportunity to
get around when they went. My mother's car, I got to
use it. But as far as my own car, I didn't get one
until I was about to graduate, to tell you the
truth. And I really didn't need it. Didn't need to
have a vehicle involved. I had friends and
obviously cars and stuff. And it was not a problem
to get around.
Women were beginning to enroll at A&M. Describe
getting a date, meeting a young lady, How did a
young man accomplish that? Well, you had to be kind
of careful, because the pretty girls most often
were married to the guys who were already here on
campus. You had to be careful who you were flirting
with, because it might be her husband right behind
you.
I think that in my freshman class, I think there
were like about 400 girls. I think we had like
about, I don't know, it was like 2,000 or 3,000
folks. And so that's the girls. A lot of them were
professors, daughters, and things of this
nature. local girls,
you did kind of get to know the ones that were single
and things of this nature. And the problem was, as
freshmen you didn't get a chance to really get to
date them because the upperclassmen did. And by
the time I graduated, the population of the school
had risen to like 12,000 and And there were a lot
more girls on campus then. Still, the main
criteria was that most of them were married. But
there were more girls. But at that point in time,
you still had that contact with other schools. And
on weekends, there were just a carload of girls
coming in on campus. Now, where did they stay? Oh,
they would stay at families, homes, or whatever
motel facilities that you could find. in front of
mine. Were there any TASIC visitors? Oh yeah,
there were a lot of girls from TWU would come in. But
primarily at that point in time, it was Baylor
girls, Houston girls, TU girls. You'd find
carloads of girls coming in from campuses that,
you know, one has a boyfriend and she's bringing
four or five other girls. Dates with his friends,
you know, that type of deal. I've heard about beast
buckets and moose pox. Oh, yeah, I know those
things too. Oh, boy, I was hoping you could
understand. What were the major events, dances,
and other social events for which one would hope to
have a date? All the major things that you had,
certainly you wanted bonfire. We had the
different balls. We had the class balls that you
would have. You'd have a combat ball. You'd have a
military weekend ball. You had things like junior
year, you'd get a big dance. You had senior, ring
dance your senior year. Those were things you
certainly had dates for, plus the football games.
And those big dances were held where? They were
held in the MSC, primarily, or Sabisa. And how did
one dress? You were in uniform, dress uniform,
pretty much always. As a matter of fact, my wife, I
had a date with her from boot dance in my junior
year. That was our first date. Describe how you
happened to meet her. My brother, you get set up
with these sisters, and I had a sister dumped on me a
time or two, and I was pretty reluctant to take out
sisters because I thought, well, this guy doesn't
look any better than he does. What is a sister going
to look like, you know, that type of deal. I had a
friend of mine that was from Northeast Texas also
that was classed behind me. And he came up one day
and said, my sister's coming down. He said, you
might like to go out with her. I said, oh, God, Gary,
I've had the sister routine, you know. He said, no,
I got pictures. And so I went. I said, I don't want to
see them. So I went. And she was going to East Texas
State at the time. She was a university beauty and
all that kind of stuff up there with all these
fraternity sweethearts. and really involved on
her campus. So I said, sure. And so we had our date
then and
didn't follow up. Well, I can point to it, but she
was dating another guy in high school that she'd
gone with for a long time. Anyway, my senior year
after football season was over with, I ran into
Gary again and asked if his sister was married. And
he says, no, they broke up. And I said, well.
reintroduce myself, and we ended up getting
married about 40 years later. So, that happened
quite often. You would get set up with blind dates.
Blind dates were old. That happened quite a bit.
Where were the off-limit places that an A&M
student might have gone during that era? Well,
there were certain bars and stuff, particularly
in Bryan, that you kind of watched out for. What
were they? Oh, the Hitchin' Puffs, the Longhorn
was another one. If you wanted your manhood
tested, you could get tested pretty quickly if you
were so of mind to. Nezzy's was another one I recall
that was kind of one of those places that you might
best watch your P's and Q's. We also had a problem at
that point in time with the local kids.
college kids were here in town, and they were the
local girls that you would date and things of that
nature. Some of the local high school boys or
others took offense at that, and from time to time
if you were in an unfavorable situation, you could
get jumped. And I know that that did happen from
time to time. The old KC Ballroom downtown had a lot
of dances and stuff. If you went with a local girl,
you had to be pretty careful. You might get
somebody to try to rearrange your nose for you,
stuff like that. Where did a student go to get
alcoholic beverage? Well, you could get beer from
a lot of places around. But you couldn't. You had to
go across the bridge over to McPherson County,
across Whiskey Bridge, it was called. It's on
Highway 60 here. That was the first liquor store
there. Anybody had to make a liquor run, you had to
go to Whiskey Bridge to do that. It was always a
crowded place on Friday afternoons for home
football weekends or Saturdays. As a young Aggie
and not being 21, they'd have a lot of beer busts and
stuff down the river or whatever that they provide
for you. But we'd, as you'd try to find places, we'd
go over to Snook and Brenham area, because over in
those communities, they weren't so particular
about age limits. And kids grew up over there,
physical dances and drinking beer. But I happened
to be 21, so we'd go over there. Alright, if someone
went to Whiskey Bridge and brought a bottle back,
did they dare take it in the dorm? No. Where did it
get stored? It stayed in the trunk of the car until
wherever you were going to go and have your party or
function or whatever it might be. That was
something that just didn't happen in the dorms.
There wasn't any drinking in the dorms. It really
wasn't. That was, I saw a lot of people who drunk
that came into the dorm, but I really truly can't
say that I saw any drinking taking place in the
dorms. Describe the community around the campus,
Northgate, Eastgate, Southgate, what was there?
Well, College Station was not much. It was a few
blocks off of what's now George Bush Drive. It was
that side. It went a little further on the east
side, Walton Drive, back over that area. The
Northgate area was the only business district
that there was in town. What businesses were
there? Oh, you had basically the bookstores and
you had Uh, Waldrop's, which was a men's store. Uh,
you had Mr. Hollick's, a good shop. Uh, you had
Cleaner's. Uh, you had Charlie's Grocery. Uh, Lou
Ed's Restaurant. Uh, you had the theater, the
campus theater. Uh, and that was it. That was the
business district. That fellow that ran that
place on the corner that sold a lot of things.
Describe him. That was a drug store. That's right.
It was a drug store there. And Lupo's was down now
and basically where the Dixie Chicken is.
Describe Lou. Oh, curious, outgoing, you know.
Once you saw Lupo, he was always the same. He
did a lot of things for folks. Of course, he was a
businessman, and he was out to get students'
involvement in his story and things of this
nature. But he did a lot of things for folks that
never knew about it. And I'll give one story. Of
course, when you're doing this, well, come on back
here, good eggs, you know. And he greeted
everybody, good egg, you know. It was, hey, good
egg, how you doing? Or, hey, fighter. You know, I
don't know. That was always his greeting to you.
And he always greeted you like he was your
long-lost friend, whatever. And he didn't know
you from that end, but that was OK. I remember one
time, one of the guys in the outfit Younger brother
came to campus to visit, and he came in with another
friend of his on like a Friday, and his folks were
coming in Saturday from the football game. Well,
they ended up in trouble and ended up in jail that
night. And so we're trying to figure out how we can
get him out of jail. We don't have enough money
between all of us to get him out of jail. I can't get
him bailed out. Parents will be here the next day,
and brother will say, oh, man, if my folks don't
know what just happened, they'll kill me, you
know. I said, we're going to have that money. Who do
we know that has that kind of money? Lupo's the only
one that has that kind of money. I said, let's call
him. And it was like 2.33 o'clock in the morning. I
call him. He gets up, puts on his pants, goes down,
and tells the kid out of jail. I thought, now that's
great. That really is. We paid him back. No problem
with that. Total stranger. But he was nagging. I
told him the circumstances. He said, sir, you bet,
son. I might be doing it. And he did. But he was a
character. But he was loved by folks. He was who he
was. Off-campus events. What major national or
worldwide events do you remember that occurred
while you were here as a student? Oh, I remember all
the marches and the riots and things of this nature
that took place. The unrest. that was existing
elsewhere but here. It was like we were insulating
that stuff here. But this is the peace movement,
and I remember the Democratic Convention of 68,
that summer, the riots in Chicago, the Black
Panthers,
all those things that went on and were just timed in
our country that I thought, man, where are we going
as a nation? because it was so different than the
way Westmont was growing up. All of a sudden, in
about a four year time period there, society
changed, big time. From being segregated, old
South, God country, my mouth fired, God country to
being something that's hard to recognize. And it
happened very quickly. It was a very tumultuous
time in our country and our lives. And I saw it in the
distance. I didn't really anticipate that stuff.
What did you and your friends think about Vietnam
and its effect on you? Most of us were, you know, of
the opinion, it happens, it happens. It's
something that you're supposed to do. That sense
of duty, I guess. My family was always that kind of
sense. My father fought in World War II. His father
fought in World War I. I think if somebody in my
family served in every war in our country, they had
to serve in the Spanish-American War. And it was
your time and your generation. You just did it,
period. And so it was, that was kind of the attitude
that we had. And I'll tell you, earlier in my
career, people were more gung-ho about the
military than they were at the end of it. At the end
of it, you had all these
about what they were really doing. And of course,
you have some hesitancy, too, about the
situation. But I know that most of us did serve, and
most of us, a lot of us did feel good. Was there an
impact on dorm and or corps life from Vietnam? Were
there veterans that were on corps staff or in the
trigon or anything? There were some. We never got
into this military peace movement conflict type
of deal at all on this campus when I was here. I know
that there were a lot of unrest on the campuses. The
Kent State killing and all the riots that took
place. I think General Rudder had it. How many
demonstrations do you remember here? Zero. I was
told there was some folks coming over from Austin
one time, but they never made it to campus. The only
demonstration, I think, that ever occurred on
campus occurred before I got here, and that was in
Marsden President's home about the food, quality
of the food. There was nothing like that ever on
that campus. And like I said, we were kind of
insulating that stuff in that regard. And I was
kind of glad. But you'd see it on TV and things of
this nature, and you'd say, man. Let's see.
Student indulgences. There were some beer and
whiskey. Tobacco? Yes, tobacco. And I will just
tell you that I never, ever saw the use of any
narcotics in any shape or fashion. Did you even
know the words? No. I didn't know what all the slang
words were. You know, those are good stuff. And
marijuana, until I got in the military, I did not
even know what it looked like, smelled like, or
anything else. I flew this in that regard. We had
kind of a pristine environment here, too, truly. I
never, like I said, I never saw those things until I
got off the circus. Describe a court trip. Oh, it
was helter-skelter, catch as catch can, get
there, get there, pile into somebody's home,
sleep on the floors, wherever you could, and mom
and dad trying everything they could to keep
everybody fed and happy, and it was a great time.
Then the game, March in, and the game and the
parties and stuff, it was always a fun trip. Always
a great trip. I look forward to court trips. Do you
remember any specific high or low point on a court
trip? Oh, I remember a court trip my freshman year
before, and we all, whoever lived in that area had
to put up with all the classmates. And we had a
couple of guys from the area, so we were able to buy
that, buy two or three guys from the area. And we had
a great time, and we go to the game, and we play TCU.
And we're successful. The game was on the call. And
one thing I remember is we were leaving, and I
didn't have dates. We were just up there with the
guys that one time. And we had a senior, or there was
a senior, that got jumped by some pledges from one
of the attorneys at TCU. There were about 20 of
those guys there. He jumped in on his date and tried
to take his boots off. And I recall he started
hollering, old army fight. And so now the chant
gets up, old army fight. And everybody starts
talking about, well, next thing you know, we have
about 300 of us, and there's about 20 of them. So the
eyes turned about the same way in our favor then.
And they decided being in that fraternity was not,
and that task they were given was not what they
should be doing, and be the retreat, so to speak.
But that was the thing. And the others are always
fun, too. We always had a great time. We enjoyed it.
Our senior year, we took a senior trip as we got to
Saline. And we were on chartered buses and stuff as
seniors when we were down there. We had New
Orleans, and it was great. It was fun. Describe a
typical football day in College Station. Most of
the games were day games. And so a typical day was
that you would get up and start getting your
uniform and stuff together that morning. You
don't go to chow or anything like that, march to
chow usually. But you would have a formation
before you go to the game because you would do the
marching. And date, parents and stuff would come
to the dorm. You usually had a mom. Back in those
days, you bought a mom for your date, your mom,
whoever. All the women wore moms. There were
people on the side of the road selling moms to
everybody going to the game. And you would March
over, go to the game. It was always exciting. It was
always a grand time on campus. We only had the one
level at Kyle Field. They started building the
second level my senior year. But they didn't have
it. We just had it until the year after I graduated.
So we just had the one level at Kyle Field. It was
always pretty much well attended. There might be a
few seats in the horseshoe sometimes that weren't
used. But most of the time, it was full. and it was a
great moment. Victory celebrations, what were
they? Well, carrying the Yeliers off the field,
carrying the football team off the field. We
didn't have too many of those, so I thought we won
one game my freshman year, and that was Gene
Stallings' first year.
It was more of a sense of family and closeness and
environment Then I think now the kids on the
football team were isolated. They were part of the
campus, and everybody knew them, and they knew a
lot of those folks. A lot more interaction, I
thought, between the athletes than there is now.
What was your favorite football game memory?
Victory. Oh, from a victory standpoint, it would
have to be the 10-0 win, like you knew you were going
to beat Texas here. win a conference
championship. Or the second most would be the
Texas Tech victory out at Tech, where we had our
score with no time left on the block to win that
game, which was the start of the run, which was a
great deal. One of the stories I tell about the Tech
game is, we're out there with, we had dates with
Tech girls and stuff, and we're staying at this
apartment with one of his high school buddies who
went to Tech. And we had great girls for a date,
pretty girls, and we had a lot of fun. We go to the
game, and they're intrigued by all this Aggie
stuff. It's a great game. We win the end of the game.
And we're going to go back to the apartment. We're
going to celebrate a little bit. And I remember
walking back. There was like four of us. We had our
uniforms on. And we had these dates. Here comes
this freshman. He was in a uniform, his core
uniform. got one of those bells from those saddle
tramps that got him. And here's about 50 guys in red
shirts and black pants just right behind him. And
he's running to beat the thing in.